---
title: "(Q2-IF2.401) Body Mass Index Linked to Short-Term and Long-Term All-Cause Mortality in Patients with Acute Myocardial Infarction"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-04-21-BMI_AMI
excerpt: ''
date: 2021-04-21
venue: 'Postgraduate Medical Journal'
---
[Download paper (pdf) here](http://kelseyjhonna.github.io/files/postgradmedj.pdf)

## Abstract

**Purposes of study** This study aimed to elucidate the relationship between obesity and short-term and long-term mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) by analysing the body mass index (BMI).

**Study design** A retrospective cohort study was performed on adult intensive care unit (ICU) patients with AMI in the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care III database. The WHO BMI classification was used in the study. The Kaplan-Meier curve was used to show the likelihood of survival in patients with AMI. The relationships of the BMI classification with short-term and long-term mortality were assessed using Cox proportional hazard regression models.

**Results** This study included 1295 ICU patients with AMI, who were divided into four groups according to the WHO BMI classification. Our results suggest that obese patients with AMI tended to be younger (p<0.001), be men (p=0.001) and have higher blood glucose and creatine kinase (p<0.001) compared with normal weight patients. In the adjusted model, compared with normal weight AMI patients, those who were overweight and obese had lower ICU risks of death HR=0.64 (95% CI 0.46 to 0.89) and 0.55 (0.38 to 0.78), respectively, inhospital risks of death (0.77 (0.56 to 1.09) and 0.61 (0.43 to 0.87)) and long-term risks of death (0.78 0.64 to 0.94) and 0.72 (0.59 to 0.89). On the other hand, underweight patients had higher risks of short-term(ICU or inhospital mortality) and long-term mortality compared with normal weight patients (HR=1.39 (95% CI 0.58 to 3.30), 1.46 (0.62 to 3.42) and 1.99 (1.15 to 3.44), respectively).

**Conclusions** Overweight and obesity were protective factors for the short-term and long-term risks of death in patients with AMI.



## Citation: 

Yang R, Ma W, Wang Z*, et al.* **Body mass index linked to short-term and long-term all-cause mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction Postgraduate Medical Journal** Published Online First: 20 April 2021. doi: [10.1136/postgradmedj-2020-139677](https://pmj.bmj.com/content/early/2021/04/19/postgradmedj-2020-139677).

